The first thing that I want you to
do here in this find shortest path,
you can write another function that does
this, or I just do it right here in line.
I need to create a, basically a grid
that's the same size of this maze, but
that I can like add objects to, right?
So I'm just gonna write like a really,
oops, don't do that.
Const this maze's called visited,
that's what I'm gonna call it.
And I'm just gonna write this
in terms of a quick map.
But you could totally do this with a for
loop or something like that.
Actually, maybe let's even just
do this in terms of, well,
let's just make a whole
different function.
Okay, here we go, function,
Generate (visited).
And it's gonna take in the maze,
I think, and that's it.
In here we're gonna make
an array called visited.
So const visited equals empty array.
And here we're gonna write a for
loop, for let i = 0,
i is less than maze.length i++.
Okay, so this is gonna be looping over
the y axis of our particular array.
Cuz, remember our array's 2D.
And then inside of that,
we're gonna do another for
loop, for let, i or let j = 0,
j is less than maze( i.length), j++.
And actually we could probably make this
a little bit better, let's make i here.
We're gonna make that y.
And then instead of j here,
we're gonna make this x.
Just to make a little bit, so
we can keep track of x and y.
Okay, and then we're going to say,
Yeah, const new, or coordinate,
let's call it coordinate,
Is a new object that is,
Yeah, it's gonna have closed,
And that's gonna be if maze(
y x is triple equal to 1).
Length is 0 because nothing
has touched it yet, right?
So we haven't actually started
traversing our maze yet.
And it hasn't been opened by anyone.
So I'm gonna make these little variables
at the top just help me keep track.
So I'm gonna say const, Null_one = 0,
const by_A = 1, and const by_B = 2.
And then that way I can
say open by null_one.
And this makes more sense
than open by zero, right?
This just makes it a little
bit easier to read.
So I'm gonna have this coordinate.
Here we're gonna have this const
yaxis is gonna be equal to new array.
And what we're just gonna do here is
we're going to, Push into the y axis.
So we're gonna say yaxis,
Dot push(coordinate).
And then down here after this for
loop, we're gonna say,
Visited.push( yaxis).
Then down here return visited.
So the code that I have here in
my notes looks fairly similar.
I just did the exact same thing with
a map instead of a couple of for loops.
So let's just make sure that this
actually looks like the way I think it's
gonna look.
Console.log, Oops,
const visited = generate(visited),
With maze and console.log(visited).
Okay, so let's do this.
We don't wanna skip this anymore.
And we'll just do that.
And then we'll click play and
see what comes out.
So you can see here I got an array back.
That's actually new to this
as well with graph test.
Get rid of that, okay.
Back in pathfinding.test.
So you can see here each one
of these has length, for
this one, closed false,
length, open by zero.
So this all looks like it's above board.
But this is all I did, right?
I basically took this and
I made it into my own data structure.
So I can keep track of what's opened,
what's not opened,
all that kinda of stuff.
And let's actually do this for this one
as well, just so I make sure that this,
6 by 6, good news, these are all six.
And I just wanna make sure on row 4 here,
sorry,
row 5, That these are closed.
And they are, okay, cool.
So this looks like it's generating okay.
So now I have a data structure
that I can work with.
That one should be open, open,
and this one should be closed.
Close, cool, great.
That works great.
So now we have this generated visited
maze here that we can work with.
And the first thing that we're gonna
do is we're gonna say, visited[ [ya],
[xa])] is assigned, or,
sorry, opened by A, right?
So we're gonna start with our maze.
And we're gonna spiral out from there.
And this looks a little weird for
people, because we're used to x comma y.
But just think about in the sense of
that we're opening the y axis first and
inside of the y axis is the x axis.
That's why it's ya, xa Same
thing here visited
ybxb.openedby by b.
Okay, and now we'll have like on this one,
we're opening this one correctly,
we're opening like that,
right, wherever the twos are.
Okay?
Then we're gonna do an aq and a bq.
So let aq assigned, and we're just
gonna queue up our very first note here.
So visited, Actually we can
just even copy this, right?
And let bq equal that.
And this is just gonna work exactly like
how it worked with our graph, right?
We're just going to go through our aq and
our bq, we're gonna spiral them out where
we're going to read first traverse
until they crossover with each other.
So, our outer loop,
how far do we wanna go?
We wanna go until we find that they
meet or they don't meet, right?
So we're gonna say while
aq.length and bq.length.
Whereas before on our social graph,
we wanted to limit how far
out we would traverse,
in this case, we wanna go as far as we
possibly can until we find the answer.
So, if we get through all of this and
we don't find anything,
then we're gonna say return
negative one where negative one
means I didn't find the path, right?
There's no path between these
two particular things, okay?
Then up here we're gonna have an iteration
number let iteration equals zero.
And the first thing we're gonna
say is iteration plus, plus.
This is so we can mark that, like if
we're exploring here this will be one,
this will be one, this will be two,
this will be two, this will be two, right?
That's why we're gonna keep track here of
the iteration const a neighbors equals aq.
So, I wrote all these with reduces,
which I don't think is the best
way actually to demonstrate this.
All right, so
let's write a function down here before
we get into this called get neighbors.
Function get neighbors.
So we're gonna give it our visited graph.
We're gonna give it x and
we're gonna give it y.
So, basically what I want to do
with this function is I wanna say,
if I give you a coordinate x and y,
give me back all of the neighbors
that exist for that particular item.
So I'm gonna give it an empty array.
And then basically all we wanna do here
is we just wanna check to make sure that
we're not going out of bounds and that
we haven't already visited that, right?
So, if y minus one is greater than or
equal to zero, right?
So if we're going up and
we're not going to negative one,
right, we're not going out of
bounds of our particular array.
And, we haven't already visited it, right?
Because we don't wanna revisit
the same things over and over again.
Y minus 1 x,
So this is just going up
one bit on the same x-axis.
Axis, it's a hard word.
And it's not closed.
That's y minus 1, so
it's actually going left.
Yep, then neighbors, oops.
Neighbors.push visited y minus 1x.
So we're just gonna do the same thing for
all of our neighbors, right,
we're gonna go left, up, right and down.
So, luckily these are all kind of
minor variations of each other, right?
So this one is gonna be
instead of y minus 1 plus 1,
okay, and
instead of going out of bounds this way,
we're just gonna go to
visited zero.length.
I'm assuming that it's a square,
not a square but
at least rectangular grid, right?
So it's not jagged on the edges,
which is why I'm just looking
at visited zero, okay?
And then here will be plus 1 and
that's it, right, plus 1, okay?
And we're gonna do this again, but
we're gonna do x minus 1
that's greater than or
equal to 0 and y, x minus 1 closed.
Okay?
Same thing here,
this is gonna be x minus 1.
And this is up.
Then one more time for x plus 1.
And this is for visited.length
And visited x plus 1,
x plus 1 and this is down.
Okay?
And then here,
this will return to us neighbors, right?
So now we can give it any sort of
visited array with x and y and
we'll get the valid neighbors for
us to nq after this.
So, what we're gonna do here is
we're gonna get the neighbors for
a neighbor so const a neighbors,
this is assigned get neighbors.
We have to go through axis to it this way.
So we're going to say four let I,
Equal zero.
I is less than aq.
.length, i++.
And we're gonna say, Let
aNeighbors, Equal empty
array, aNeighbors.push,
For all the neighbors in the aQueue.
So we're gonna say aQueue, const neighbor,
const coordinate = aQueue that.
We could have totally done it this way.
In fact, let's just do it this way.
Sorry, one more time.
While aQueue.length,
we're gonna say const coordinate,
aQueue.shift, okay?
So now we can have a coordinate here, and
this is gonna keep going until
all of this has been emptied.
And we're gonna say aNeighbors.concat,
Get neighbors of visited
coordinate.x and coordinate.y.
There we go.
Took me a second, but we got there.
But the basic idea here is we're gonna go
through everything that's in the queue and
we're going to enqueue all
of its valid neighbors.
So then we're gonna have this aNeighbors,
and this is gonna have to be equal.
So we have to say a, Like that cuz concat
gives you back a new array, right?
At the end of this aNeighbors is gonna
have all of the valid neighbors on there.
So we're gonna have to go and
modify all of these to be opened by
a with all of their correct lengths.
Okay, so let's go ahead and do that.
We're gonna say, Let's even just say this,
gather a neighbors.
And then process
a neighbors for
let i = 0,
i is less than i, or sorry,
neighbors.length, i++.
Const neighbor = aNeighbors(i).
I'm seeing neighbor so many times.
It's losing all meaning to me.
Have you ever had that happen to you?
I think it's called semantization or
something like that,
where you say something so
many times that you don't think you're
actually spelling it correctly anymore.
That just happened.
All right, if neighbor.openedBy
=== B, BY_B, then guess what,
we found the answer, hallelujah,
return neighbor.length + iteration, right?
So this is just saying if I have spun out
and I've encountered the next thing that
has been opened by b when I'm doing it
on a, it means cool, we found the path.
So we add my length that I have of
how far away I am from my origin plus
the iteration, which is how far away
you are from the other one, right?
Then you've found the correct one.
All right,
else if neighbor.openedBy === NO_ONE, so
if this hasn't been opened before, Then
we're gonna say neighbor.length, we're
gonna consider this one visited, right?
So neighbor.length = iteration,
neighbor.openedBy BY_A,
and aQeue.push neighbor.
Right, so
it means that we've gotten one forward,
we're not going to queue this neighbor
that we're looking at now for
the next iteration so that we can go ahead
and process it on the next go around.